tests/didt/README.md, before:

# Running tests

## Basic examples

FF1 without gelu: `WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest tests/didt/test_ff1_matmul.py::test_ff1_matmul -k "without_gelu and 2chips"`

FF1 with gelu: `WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest tests/didt/test_ff1_matmul.py::test_ff1_matmul -k "with_gelu and 2chips"`

LM head: `WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest tests/didt/test_lm_head_matmul.py::test_lm_head_matmul -k "2chips"`

## Variations

### Supported systems

We support N150, N300, T3000 and Galaxy (TG) systems. To choose the system, pass in the following parametrization ids (as shown in the example commands):
- 1chips
- 2chips
- 8chips
- galaxy

NOTE: If running on Galaxy system, remove the WH_ARCH_YAML env variable from the command.

### Targetting specific device

On all multi-device systems, you can target a specific device using its ID in the parametrization `logical_chip_{id}_`:

`WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest tests/didt/test_ff1_matmul.py::test_specific_chip_ff1_matmul -k "without_gelu and 8chips and logical_chip_3_"`

### Targetting specific board

On T3000 systems, you can target a specific board (local and remote chip together) using the ID of the local device in the parametrization `board_id_{id}`:

`WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest tests/didt/test_ff1_matmul.py::test_specific_board_ff1_matmul -k "without_gelu and 8chips and board_id_2"`

### Iterations

By default, we run 100000 iterations of the loop, but you can override that behavior using --iterations option:

`WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest tests/didt/test_ff1_matmul.py::test_ff1_matmul -k "without_gelu and 2chips" --iterations 5000000`

### Determinism

If you wish to check if the output is deterministic, simply pass in the --determinism-check-iteration option - the option tells on how many iterations we do the determinism check. Example:

`WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest tests/didt/test_ff1_matmul.py::test_ff1_matmul -k "without_gelu and 2chips" --determinism-check-iterations 50`


## Legacy commands

For backwards compatibility, we still support the commands used so far and their old behavior:

FF1 without gelu: `WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest models/experimental/falcon_7b/tests/test_reproduce_hang_matmul.py -k "test_reproduce_matmul_2d_hang and ff1-hang and 8chips"`

FF1 with gelu: `WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest tests/didt/test_sharded_ff1.py -k "test_reproduce_matmul_2d_hang and 8chips"`

LM head: `WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest models/demos/falcon7b/tests/test_falcon_hang.py -k "test_reproduce_lm_head_nd_32 and 8chips"`




# Adding another suspected repro test

`tests/didt/matmul_test_base.py` defines a base class for all tests that encapsulates common behavior - how we run iterations, deallocate, check determinism, sync, etc.  To add a new test, create a new file under the same directory, and then either:
- instantiate object of the base class in case you don't need to change any behavior, just populate dimensions, configs etc (example in `test_ff1_matmul.py`)
- extend the base class to override any behavior that needs to be changed (for now we allow to change the way we generate activations & weights, and setting the seed), and then instantiate object of the new class

Commit message:

#0: Enable didt tests on BH

tests/didt/README.md, after:

# Running tests

## Basic examples

FF1 without gelu: `WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest tests/didt/test_ff1_matmul.py::test_ff1_matmul -k "without_gelu and 2chips"`

FF1 with gelu: `WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest tests/didt/test_ff1_matmul.py::test_ff1_matmul -k "with_gelu and 2chips"`

LM head: `WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest tests/didt/test_lm_head_matmul.py::test_lm_head_matmul -k "2chips"`

## Variations

### Supported systems

We support N150, N300, T3000, Galaxy (TG) systems, and single chip Blackhole. To choose the system, pass in the following parametrization ids (as shown in the example commands):
- 1chips
- 2chips
- 8chips
- galaxy

NOTE: If running on Galaxy system, remove the WH_ARCH_YAML env variable from the command.

### Targetting specific device

On all multi-device systems, you can target a specific device using its ID in the parametrization `logical_chip_{id}_`:

`WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest tests/didt/test_ff1_matmul.py::test_specific_chip_ff1_matmul -k "without_gelu and 8chips and logical_chip_3_"`

### Targetting specific board

On T3000 systems, you can target a specific board (local and remote chip together) using the ID of the local device in the parametrization `board_id_{id}`:

`WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest tests/didt/test_ff1_matmul.py::test_specific_board_ff1_matmul -k "without_gelu and 8chips and board_id_2"`

### Iterations

By default, we run 100000 iterations of the loop, but you can override that behavior using --iterations option:

`WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest tests/didt/test_ff1_matmul.py::test_ff1_matmul -k "without_gelu and 2chips" --iterations 5000000`

### Determinism

If you wish to check if the output is deterministic, simply pass in the --determinism-check-iteration option - the option tells on how many iterations we do the determinism check. Example:

`WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest tests/didt/test_ff1_matmul.py::test_ff1_matmul -k "without_gelu and 2chips" --determinism-check-iterations 50`

## Blackhole

Tests are only supported with `1chips` ID because multi-chip/board BH has not been brought up yet.

By default the Blackhole workload compute grid is 13x10 (1 column is reserved for fast-dispatch). Adding `-k "sim-bh-2col-harvested"` will simulate 2 column harvesting on Blackhole by reducing the compute grid to 11x10.

`WH_ARCH_YAML` is not supported  but setting env var `TT_METAL_ETH_DISPATCH=1` will enable the unharvested workload to run on 14x10 compute grid. Running with `-k "sim-bh-2col-harvested"` is not supported with `TT_METAL_ETH_DISPATCH`


## Legacy commands

For backwards compatibility, we still support the commands used so far and their old behavior:

FF1 without gelu: `WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest models/experimental/falcon_7b/tests/test_reproduce_hang_matmul.py -k "test_reproduce_matmul_2d_hang and ff1-hang and 8chips"`

FF1 with gelu: `WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest tests/didt/test_sharded_ff1.py -k "test_reproduce_matmul_2d_hang and 8chips"`

LM head: `WH_ARCH_YAML=wormhole_b0_80_arch_eth_dispatch.yaml pytest models/demos/falcon7b/tests/test_falcon_hang.py -k "test_reproduce_lm_head_nd_32 and 8chips"`




# Adding another suspected repro test

`tests/didt/matmul_test_base.py` defines a base class for all tests that encapsulates common behavior - how we run iterations, deallocate, check determinism, sync, etc.  To add a new test, create a new file under the same directory, and then either:
- instantiate object of the base class in case you don't need to change any behavior, just populate dimensions, configs etc (example in `test_ff1_matmul.py`)
- extend the base class to override any behavior that needs to be changed (for now we allow to change the way we generate activations & weights, and setting the seed), and then instantiate object of the new class
